# Quantitative Properties of Graphs

## Degree

The degree of a node is given by the number of edges connected to it. In-degree is the number of edges which flow into the node, and out-degree is the number of outgoing edges. For [[Graphs#Undirected graph]], these are equivalent.

The in-degree of node $i$ is given by

$$k^{\text{in}}_i = \sum_j A_{ij}$$

The out-degree of node $i$ is given by

$$k^{\text{out}}_i = \sum_j A_{ji}$$

For an undirected graph, if there are $m$ edges, 

$$\sum_i k_i = \sum_i\sum_jA_{ij} = 2m$$

### Mean Degree

The mean degree of a network is simply $c = \rangle k_i\langle = 2m/n$

### Regular graphs

These are graphs that have the same degree at each node.

### Density

This is the fraction of all possible edges actually present in the graph. This is given by 

$$\frac{c}{n-1}\approx\frac{c}{n}$$

## Paths and walks

A walk is any sequence of nodes such that consecutive pair is connected by an edge.

A path is a nonintersecting walk.

Connectivity via a walk of $k$ steps is given by the matrix $A^k$.

Loops (not cycles) of length $k$ are given by $\text{Tr}A^r$

### Shortest path

The shortest path is the shortest walk between two nodes. Mathematically, the shortest distance is the smallest $r$ such that $A^r_{ij} > 0$ for some pair.

The diameter of the graph is the longest shortest path between any two nodes which are connected.

## Components

Components of a network is the set of subnetworks which are intraconnected, but not interconnected.

Components have an [[Adjacency Matrix]] that is block diagonal.

### Components in Directed networks

If the edges are assumed to be undirected and connectedness is defined accordingly, it becomes a weakly connected component.

If connectedness is defined in a directed manner, then components are called strongly connected.

We can also define out-component of a node to be the set of all nodes which can be reached by that node.

Similarly, the in-component is the set of all nodes which can reach a given node.

Weakly connected > incomponent/outcomponent > strongly connected

## Independant Paths, Connectivity and Cut sets

Edge independant paths are those which donot share edges

Node independant paths are those which donot share nodes

All node independant paths have to be edge-independant.

A node cut set is the set of nodes which when removed disconnect a pair of nodes. Similarly an edge cut set. A minimal cutset is the smallest such cutset.

### Max-flow/mincut

The total amount of flow into a node is the size of the weighted edge mincutset

## Laplacian

For undirected graphs,

$$L = D - A$$

where $D$ is the degree diagonal.

1. $\sum L = 0$
2. Non-negative eigenvalues, atleast 1 is 0


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Graphs#Undirected graph]: Graphs#undirected-graph "Graphs#Undirected graph"
[Adjacency Matrix]: Adjacency Matrix "Adjacency Matrix"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"